# INTERFACES
Program to determine the 3D structure of a surface species using REDOR NMR data

There are two options for using the program:

1) If you are planning on submitting jobs directly on that machine using cmd or a terminal
then use the main.cpp file. 
2) If you are planning on submitting jobs to a cluster the main_cluster.cpp file takes instead
an argument for the input file.
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
# Windows Installation
I recommend just using the provided excecutable found in the binaries directory. This corresponds 
to an x86 executable. For an ARM version it may be necessary to recompile the program.
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
# Linux Installation
Binaries are also provided for both the main.cpp and main_cluster.cpp versions. 
To submit a job to a cluster, use the following command in your job submission script:
./INTERFACES_cluster input_file > log.txt

You can also compile it fresh on your machine with the following command provided gsl is installed:
g++ main_cluster.cpp -o INTERFACES_cluster -fopenmp -lgsl -lgslcblas -lm -O3 -static -w
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
# Mac Installation
No binaries are provided for Macs at this time. To compile your own copy, homebrew needs to be installed
because INTERFACES makes use of OpenMP for parallelization. The following sequence of terminal commands
can be used to install INTERFACES and its dependencies:

Installing homebrew:
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

Installing dependencies:
brew install llvm
brew install gsl
brew install libomp

Compiling INTERFACES:
/opt/homebrew/opt/llvm/bin/clang++ -Xpreprocessor -fopenmp \
-I/opt/homebrew/opt/libomp/include \
-L/opt/homebrew/opt/libomp/lib \
-I/opt/homebrew/opt/gsl/include \
-L/opt/homebrew/opt/gsl/lib \
main_cluster.cpp -o INTERFACES -lgsl -lgslcblas -lomp -lm -O3 -march=native -w
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Note: All needed REDOR library files must be included in the running directory of the program, together with 
the input file, any REDOR data files, and the starting structure, given as a mol2 file. Please reference the 
publication and the examples for more details. 

If a REDOR library does not already exist for the support and/or nuclide of interest one can be generated by using 
the "library_maker.c" program, or by contacting Frederic Perras. A few parameters in the library_maker.c file need 
to be edited for each case. The program can be compiled with the following command. More details are given in the 
comments in the source code.
mpicc library_maker.c -o library_maker -lm -O3 -march=native

Copyright 2022.  Iowa State University.  This material was produced under U.S. Government contract DE-AC02-07CH11358 
for the Ames National Laboratory, which is operated by Iowa State University for the U.S. Department of Energy.  The 
U.S. Government has rights to use, reproduce, and distribute this software.  NEITHER THE GOVERNMENT, AMES NATIONAL 
LABORATORY, NOR IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OR ASSUMES ANY LIABILITY FOR THE USE OF 
THIS SOFTWARE.  If software is modified to produce derivative works, such modified software should be clearly marked, 
so as not to confuse it with the version available from The Ames Laboratory.

Additionally, this program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU 
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your 
option) any later version.  Accordingly, this program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU 
General Public License for more details. 
